Phase 1: Community Expansion

See Approved Budget File

Use this time to test, determine best way to get signal from rooftop installs (p2p links, nanostations) to people inside. Test a variety of dual-band routers and give each away.

Deploy mapping, SSID tracking, and wifi scanning raspberry pis to the sites of future installs. Build network and noise maps. Aggregate on nycmesh.net/map

Get BGP server running at Sabey. Deploy wiki, outernet library, and khan academy videos on ipfs running on a central server at Sabey/droplet.

Getting DoE credentials and developing curriculum with New America for a course to train people to be network installers. Find interested people and train more if they want. Allow people to sell bandwidth to their neighbors. Not as NYC Mesh, but some LLC using the infrastructure that NYC Mesh maintains. 

End of phase 1: Summer  2017
Armed with data, maps, and a year of on-the-ground testing, we will be set to expand.

Phase 2: Products ship 2019

Roll our own hardware. We are talking to three OEM’s right now. I have sent them spec sheets of what an ideal mesh router would be. That document is in this same folder entitled Magic Mesh Box.

Buy 10,000 units with grant money/kickstarter. Charge twice as much as ‘cost’ ~$150 retail. That means  750,000 over cost of production. Even if we donate 10% to developers in other cities/countries for development purposes, then we’ll still be good.

10,000 units covers up to  833 blocks of row-houses. (More people, but fewer buildings/blocks in an area with taller buildings like skyscrapers or housing authority). 

Now we’re getting somewhere.

Hire install technicians ($5-10k grants with free training, ability to advance), and a couple engineers (15k each overseas), and educators (50-75k each), lawyer (5k retainer), accountant (10k annual).

Sell the fuck out of the magic mesh boxes because there are 100 million people in the world in cities with active mesh developments. Get boxes to other cities to reproduce there. 


Phase 3: Version 2.0+ 2020

Export.


