Hello!
(intro)
My name is  [*******] and I work with an organization NYC Mesh, that helps build and maintain a community wireless network throughout New York City. We have 50 active hotspots throughout the city. Each node on our network is owned by a local business, community organization, or resident who shares our aims. 

After four years of developing software, building our organization, and testing, we are ready to expand. We are experts in wireless communications, data management, and software development. We have the hardware, the technical know-how, and the experience to connect communities who do not have access to the internet.

(aims)
We are working towards a world in which the data, services, and technologies can be produced and maintained in the communities that use them. The first step is providing open access to the internet. We do not charge for our services- our staff is entirely volunteer. We do not sell advertisements or retain user data. We simply believe that everyone should have access to all of the educational materials, job opportunities, and social networks that drive the modern world. We that the internet should be free.

(rooftop access)
Given our commitments and experience, all we need from you is a rooftop or window, an electrical outlet and less than a square foot of space for our hardware. We will install the hardware, maintain the network, and work with your organization to provide technical infrastructure in your community. To put it simply, we will take the internet access that you already pay for and share it with the community when you aren’t using it. Because we add our own hardware, this will have absolutely no effect on your IT department apart from a single cable. With that, we will turn your inward-facing internet access into a network that will work up and down your block, without compromising the access your organization needs to function. From here, we want to develop deep roots in your community, ensuring that our neighborhoods can meet the needs of the next century. 

(training)
We seek to empower and train locals to participate in the network, providing access to training in key job markets as well as a local infrastructure for small businesses, residents, and community organizations to use as they wish. With enough time, rooftops, and training our blocks, churches, communities, and neighborhoods can own and maintain the communications infrastructure that they depend on. Just because we all must use keyboards and screens doesn’t mean that our relationship to technology must be impersonal. We want to make the our communications infrastructure social again, and we need your help. 

(other examples)
We are not alone! Organizations in places from Spain to Detroit to Red Hook have already successfully deployed similar networks. Following Hurricane Sandy, individuals in Red Hook Initiative started a network that connected resources and opportunities to aid the relief effort. That same network now serves most of the community and has grown beyond its humble origins. We were inspired by this effort and decided to build a platform for the entire city. Will you introduce us to your block? We’re trying to be good neighbors. 


// Notes:

This needs to be editing down by ⅓ at least. 
Picture needs to be added



