Package A:
    Share your internet with the neighborhood
Package B:
    You can get internet from us
Package C:
    We can use your roof as a repeater to support other parts of the network
Package D:
        Internal network and one of the above


Work Flow
Institutions for outreach
Make notes, do research
Move to leads page on organizational contacts after we fill out contact details and track down the right person
If contact, move to front page (called ‘Active Partners’)

Requirements:

Regular power outlet within 300 feet
we run a single power cord from that port.

Vision
flesh out the options


Pros:
Red Hook case study
Guifi

Technical Assistance with your in-church tech needs


Pew Research

each person needs 5Mb/s of netflix
And 1/3 people use Netflix at peak
All other traffic is less than 1Mb/s (excluding games and torrents)

Workflow:
Growth, Sales, and Outreach  
Organizational Workflow
List of institutions for outreach (religious institutions, social services buildings, library, schools, and more)
We have a list started pulled from a database with contact info: Mesh > Notes and Minutes > “Institutions for Outreach”
All contacted leads are saved: Mesh > Notes and Minutes > “Organizational Contact List” - this is our CRM for leads we have contacted with follow up notes
See below for “How to Use the ‘CRM’”
For cold outreaches: call and send email - repeat for a number of weeks until we reach someone
If there is interest from the lead: set up meeting and bring Brian/Charlie for a site visit
Follow up (post meeting): provide additional materials as discussed in the meeting. Brian/Charlie to create a site survey saved: Mesh > Site Surveys.
Site Survey sent to lead and discussion continues
How to Use the “CRM”
“Active Partners” tab - everyone “engaged” with NYC Mesh in any format. Anyone who you have made contact with and has responded positively or negatively.
“Leads” tab - “open” leads. The list of contacts and sites that you are working on contacting. Because we do not want to have multiple people calling the same church (for instance), we make sure to list those contacts here.
Types of Institutions for Outreach:
Range of the transmitters is essentially a function of height
Taller buildings mean more range for the same $
Community spaces already have captive audiences inclined to social missions
Churches (++if they have a steeple)
Community relief services (shelters, food pantries, health centers)
Often under-staffed and under-funded
Will gladly take free IT support in exchange for user base
Schools
Require special credentials. Contact Charlie for more info.
Libraries 
In process with Brooklyn and NY public library systems.
Anyone know people at Queens library system?
Residential
Have people fill out the join form!
Small businesses
Need high-speed, reliable connection
Will foot the bill for the rest of the block with the right pitch
City/government buildings
Please let the leadership team handle these leads. We are in talks for access to NYCHA buildings and MTA tunnels

