Electronics Project: Off-grid Electrical System Design Battery Bank
So, the first problem in designing an off-grid power system is the battery bank. Batteries are crucial, as an individual does not want to wait around for wind/solar/thermal energy to be useful to an electronic device. It makes much more sense to store ambient energy for use when it is needed. There is entirely more energy available throughout the day than at any particular moment I need to charge my phone. Secondly, we have to determine the size of our battery bank. As a point of reference, my phone battery stores 4300mAh worth of charge. Ideally, my off-grid system would be able to charge my phone to 100% (ie store >4300mAh). The next consideration is the type of battery.
There are a couple of options for batteries. In fact, there are an essentially infinite number of ways to store energy to be used for later. In general, energy can be stored as chemical energy, gravitational potential energy, and electric/magnetic potential. Since hills are not portable and electric/magnetic fields are not particularly stable by themselves, we are left with the chemical option. From here there are several options
Lithium-ion
Lithium-ion batteries are excelent for consumer devices as they operate efficiently at room temperature, can last for about 700 recharge cycles, and can charge with as little as 200mA. However, they do not operate very efficiently in extreme cold or hot, which makes them not very well suited for outdoor charging applications.
Lithium-polymer
Li-Po batteries have the same pros as lithium ion batteries, but are even worse for outdoor applications. In direct sunlight, a Li-Po battery can explode, making them useless for portable off-gride power.
Nickel-Metal-Hydride
Ni-MH batteries are what we think of when we think of rechargable alkaline batteries. For the AA model, they have a potential of 1.5V each, and a storage capacity at about 2500mAh. I eventually decided to use 2 of these as 5Ah will charge my phone from empty, they have decent temperature response, they can handle trickle-charging without damage, and they are cheap and readily available anywhere.
Nickel-Cadium
Ni-Cd batteries were designed with off-grid charging in mind. They have superior specs for temperature response, lifetime, and trickle- charge capabilities. However, a single AA Ni-Cd battery only stores about 800mAh. This means that my battery bank would require 6 of these, increasing the internal resistance of the circuit, creating a higher power loss, and requiring more power to start charging a battery.
Zinc-Cadmium
These are your standard alkaline battery. They are not rechargeable, and are consequently not suited for this battery bank. However, because they are obtained at any dollar store, bodega, or corner store in the country, I would like to be able to use them in this project.
Hydrogen Fuel Cell
This is the gold standard for off-grid energy storage. In essence, we can take excess electricity (from solar, wind, etc) and use it to electrolyze water, producing oxygen and hydrogen gasses. The oxygen can be released as a waste product, and the hydrogen can be catalyzed and used to create a current. However, these systems are incredibly expensive. The hydrogen catalyst is composed primarily of platinum, making this design totally stationary as well as prohibitively costly. However, hydrogen batteries can be reused indefinitely (as long as there is a supply of water), require no outside resources (apart from a single catalyst). The hydrogen can also be used to run a car without modifications, but this is beside the point.
Since I’ve decided to use two Ni-MH batteries as my storage system, we need a waterproof, durable container to put them in. The size/design of this container will be a constraint for the circuitry moving forward. I found a metal tin online (the same size of and Altoids gum tin) that holds two batteries and the battery case while leaving a 2cm*1cm*1/2cm space for the circuitry. Because this system will be used
Printed by Wolfram Mathematica Student Edition
2 OffGridPower.nb
exclusively with widely variable energy sources, it is best to use a charge controller both into and out of the battery. This ensures that the voltages in and out of the batteries meet their specifications, which prevents any damage to the battery (and subsequent catastrophic chemistry). We will come back to this, as the specs of our charge controller depend entirely on the specs of the generator.
Power Source
There are many ways to generate power. However, our options become limited as we add constraints. For this project, the power source must be durable, produce ~1W of power, and be cheap (because I’m a student). As such, we are left with four options.
Wind
Wind power is great. It’s clean, it’s plentiful, and there’s effectively no upper limit to the amount of power we can draw from it. It’s power can be given by the equation:
Power = k*C
p
*
1
2
*ρ*A*V3
(1)
Where, k is a constant = .000133, Power is in kW, C
p
is the max power coefficient, ρ is the air density, A is the area, and V is the windspeed velocity. This says that we have to have a wind turbine with a radius of 1m to generate 100 W. If we want to build something pocket sized (ie a turbine diameter of .05m), then we would only generate .04 W. In order to meet our minimum energy requirements, we would need to have a turbine diameter of at least .25m. This is rapidly become not-so portable. Additionally, because there are many moving parts, efficiency decreases rapidly with a marginal decrease in cost. The same goes with durability. Clearly, wind power by itself is not a feasibly option.
Solar
Solar power is another good option as under ideal conditions, one can obtain as much as 2000W per square meter. However, since I’ll be dealing with the cheap end of the electronics, we can expect an efficiency much, much closer to 1% of that. That is, we’ll be working with panels that are closer to 20 W m2, assuming no heat loss in the elctronics.
Piezoelectric power is in its infancy. Even though I burn upwards of 20 Watts (calculations below). Additionally, because of the nano- engineering involved in these generators, the efficiency approaches 95% (Evans 1984). That means that we could glean almost 19W, just from walking. However, these generators are incredibly expensive, requiring solid state devices and meta materials. However, cheaper piezoelectric devices (of the acoustic input kind) are cheap, but have efficiencies closer to 50%. Additionally, only a small portion of this energy can be harvested as excess because most still has to go to the ground so that I can moveforward on my hike. As of 2012, developing this technology is a primary concern for Cambridge University (Bischur 2012). I could only find a few instances in which these technologies have been imple- mentely effectively, and all of those cases dealt with power on the order of MW. So, for the mean time, I’ll be stuck with solar and wind.
caloriesWhileSitting = 2000 * 10^3;
caloriesWhileHiking = 5000 * 10^3;
caloriesFromWalking = caloriesWhileHiking - caloriesWhileSitting;
secondsperday = 36 000.;
Watts = caloriesFromWalking / 4.184(*calorie/Joule*) / secondsperday
19.9171
Now, that we’ve decided to use AA-style Ni-MH batteries (hot-swappable with Ni-Zn batteries), and some combination of solar and wind power, we have to figure out how to convert our variable rate input voltage into ~2.4 V to charge the battery, then back up to 5V to charge a USB device. Since we’re dealing with portable devices, the maximum voltage we’re talking about realistically is 15V for a photovoltaic cell (pretty big now, but ‘portable’ in a year a two) and 12 V for wind (geared DC motor). So, we need a linear regulator that can take these voltages and convert them to 5V on the fly. We are left with a couple options. For AC generators (wind), we can use a transformer. However, this is only useful when we have a constant voltage coming out of the generator. Otherwise, we risk stepping our voltage down past the charge value when the wind dies down. We can use a linear regulator (the L7805 listed in our book outputs a steady 5V), but linear regulators release the excess voltage as heat. This is bad both for the battery and the efficiency of our power bank. However, these are cheap. Zener diodes work too, but I didn’t have the on hand, nor did Radioshack or Microcenter.
Printed by Wolfram Mathematica Student Edition
Synthesis
So, for the final design, I went with a solar panel for the generator and a battery bank with 2 Amazon Basics AA. They can store 2500mAh and put out 1.5 V each. They are swappable in a pinch with any alkaline AA batteries (Ni-Zn non-rechargeable). Additionally, the battery and the generator will be separate components to make the project scalable an modular. At some point, I’d like to add a wind-power option. However, due to the time and monetary constraints on this project, I decided to forego the wind generator. A solar panel works out of the box and cost $15 at MicroCenter. Additionally, an AC generator requires extra components like a transformer, a rectifier, and capacitors/inductors to eliminate ripple.
Build
For the PCB, I sourced a piece from Adafruit industries. They have a kit for a USB-powered battery bank, and a purpose-built PCB is superior to a non-printed circuit board at Radioshack. The board has slots for 4 capacitors (2 to even out ripple from the battery, one to get rid of ripple from the LT1302, and one connected to the voltage controller). By adding these up (in series and parallel as seen below), we can find the size of the inductor to push the current/voltage relationship to unity. There is a slot on the PCB for that too. There is also a slot for a Schottky diode to ensure that current only flows in the intended direction. These are superior to other diode solutions as they have a low voltage overhead. There are also 2 slots for resistors on the input branch so that the current does not exceed the maximum rating of the IC (at 500mA). While this is not a huge concern at the power levels of the solar panel (200mAh at peak), this will ensure scalability and modularity.
Battery Bank
OffGridPower.nb 3
Printed by Wolfram Mathematica Student Edition
4 OffGridPower.nb
Power Source
Below is the schematic for the power source. In this case, the solar panel is on the left, denoted as a voltage source. (I couldn’t find the photovoltaic icon that surely exists). I decided to use a L7805, because 1) the books talks about them in depth, 2) they are solid state devices that will be stable in a backpack. I’m now aware that a zener diode would accomplish the same thing, with less voltage overhead, but I simply didn’t realize this at the time.
Step-down Module
The schematic below is from the manufacturer of the step-down module I purchased. It has a TP4056 IC, 6 current-limiting diodes, 2 indicator LEDs, a USB power input, another power input, a input capacitor and an output capacitor. I didn’t build this because it was $4.68, and I couldn’t find the TP4056 for less than that.
Printed by Wolfram Mathematica Student Edition
OffGridPower.nb 5
Deployment
Well, firstly and most importantly is that it worked. My soldering held, improved greatly over the course of the project. I put the panel in my south-facing window and haven’t needed to charge my phone from a wall outlet in over a week. It holds together in a backpack, and the heatshrinking on the power source will provide decent water-resistance. I would like to find a waterproof case to hold all three components. Since this will be used for backpacking, both space and weight are big concerns and I have yet to find an appropriate case. However, I now have a much better handle on power control and transfer systems. I have a much stronger ability to pour through spec-sheets and find which piece I need to order. My soldering skills are better than when I started the project, and I was able to accumulate more electrical tools for my mini-workshop. I now have the confidence and skills needed to move forward in electrical engineering, while using the math and physics that made my initial design so successful. I had no surprises during this entire process, except for the underwhelming possibility of wind power. All in all, it worked. I’m using it currently, and I can imagine a time over the break in which I’ll need to charge my phone in the woods. I’m grateful for the opportunity.
Printed by Wolfram Mathematica Student Edition
